ADELE has been forced to cancel her performances at Wembley Stadium on Saturday July 1 and Sunday July 2, leaving thousands of fans disappointed.

Here’s why the The Rolling In The Deep singer was forced to pull out of two of her four London dates, and what we know about possible rescheduling.

Why did Adele cancel the Wembley Stadium gigs?

Adele was forced to cancel the final two dates of her tour after damaging her vocal cords.

The devastated singer shared the news shortly after midnight on Saturday 1 July with a lengthy, heartfelt statement posted on social media (see below).

She described the two shows she completed at Wembley – on June 28 and 29 – as the best of her life despite struggling to get through them.

A visit to the doctor following the second gig led to her being told to rest, meaning Saturday and Sunday’s shows have been axed.

She said: “To say I’m heartbroken would be a complete understatement. I’m already maxed out on steroids and aids for my voice.

“I’ve considered doing Saturday night’s show but it’s highly unlikely I’d even make it through the set and I simply can’t crumble in front of you all and walk out on you all in that way.

“I’m so desperate to do them that I’ve even considered miming, just to be in front of you and be with you. But I’ve never done it and I cannot in a million years do that to you. It wouldn’t be the real me up there.

The singer, who is said to be worth at least £125m, explained she was struggling to get her head around the events and had changed her lifestyle to make sure she could complete the entire 123-date tour.

She added that she felt her entire career felt like it had been building to her four nights at Wembley.

Has Adele had problems with her vocal problems before?

In 2011, Adele was forced to scrap a number of gigs following a vocal cord haemorrhage that left her needing surgery.

The Grammy Award-winning singer described it as ‘like someone putting a curtain over my throat’.

The surgery left her unable to speak for several weeks.

Will Adele’s Wembley gigs be rescheduled?

It’s unclear at this stage whether the London gigs will be rescheduled.

In her statement, Adele said she was sorry for the time and money fans had spend organising trips, and promised refunds.

A statement on the Wembley Stadium website says ticket holders will be “contacted directly by your point of purchase with further details”.

The gigs were due to be the final dates on her world tour which began some 16 months ago.

Where has Adele been on tour?

Adele’s tour started in Belfast on February 29 2016 and has taken her around Europe, North America and beyond, with in excess of two million people seeing her.

The tour has certainly been a talker. Adele admitting she spends several minutes every night “drenched in sweat” being wheeled around in a small box.

She also stopped a gig mid-way through to shout at a security guard who was trying to make her fans sit down in their seats.

Will this be the last we see of Adele for a while?

The mum-of-one has made no secret of her desire to spend time away from the spotlight with her family, and recently announced she like to add to her brood once she gets home from the road.

The Sun previously revealed the Brit singer – who recently opened up about the post natal depression she suffered – was planning to quit touring for up to 10 years to focus on her family, however, a Las Vegas residency may be on the cards.

She has also hinted she could quit touring as she continues to battle crippling nerves ahead of each of her sold-out shows.

Fans were devastated when Adele revealed she may NEVER tour again in an emotional handwritten buried inside the Wembley concert programme.