A STUDENT died after taking a £7 ecstasy tablet as a “one off final fling” to celebrate finishing her maths degree last month.

Joana Burns, 22, and her pals each bought the MDMA pills off a dealer during a night out at the Sheffield University Students’ Union building on June 7.

A second student was rushed to hospital in a critical condition after taking the dodgy drug at The Foundry venue.

The youngster remains in hospital in a serious but stable condition.

One of Joana’s friends from Sheffield Hallam University said the young woman was not a “regular drug user”.

She said: “It was just supposed to be a one-off final fling to finish university.”

She explained: “About two weeks before, the subject of drugs came up for discussion as some of us use recreational drugs, including cannabis and MDMA.

“Some of my friends wanted MDMA for the night out.”

Joana and the other student were rushed to hospital in Sheffield city centre, but the M&S worker sadly died the same night.

Heartbroken boyfriend Lewis Birch said: “I will always love you and you will be in my heart forever. I will never forget you and would give absolutely everything to have you back in my life.

“If anyone is ever thinking of taking any sort of drug – don’t full stop. It has torn my life apart. I am absolutely crushed right now.”

If anyone is ever thinking of taking any sort of drug – don’t full stop.
Lewis Birch, Joana's Boyfriend
Joana’s mum, Mosca, added: “Joana was a wonderful young woman with so much to look forward to. She will be missed not only by her family and friends but by everyone who knew her.”

Cops have called for a review of the club’s licence after a large quantity of drugs were seized on the night Joana died.

Ch Supt Shaun Morley said during a visit the previous week, the drug bin at venue was “overflowing” with 98 packages of powder and 36 packages of tablets, one containing 10-15 pills.

He added: “South Yorkshire Police have concerns regarding the use of controlled drugs by young persons, particularly students in Sheffield.”

A Sheffield Hallam University spokesman said: “We are extremely saddened by the death of one of our students following a night out in the city and we would like to offer our deepest condolences to the student’s family and friends following this tragic news.

“Joana Burns was a very popular student with a bright future ahead of her. We are offering support to Joana’s family, our students and staff.

“We are aware that another Sheffield Hallam student remains in hospital in a serious but stable condition and our thoughts are with them and their family at this difficult time.

“South Yorkshire Police are investigating the matter and we are working with them to support their investigations.

“Sheffield Hallam University does not condone alcohol and substance misuse in any shape or form.”

