THE BRITISH Summertime Festival has hosted some of the biggest names in music since its debut in 2013, from the Rolling Stones to Stevie Wonder to Taylor Swift.

This year’s festival, which has kicked off and runs until July 9, is set to be a corker with the likes of Justin Bieber, Phil Collins and Green Day all featuring on the big-name line-up. Here’s all you need to know about 2017’s event…

Barclaycard Present British Summer Time Hyde Park - Day 2
When is the British Summertime Festival on?

This year’s festival promises two weekends of music with other events and activities, such as open-air movie nights and a street food market, scheduled in between.

Dates run from Friday, June 30, to Sunday, July 9, 2017.

Which acts will be performing at British Summertime Festival 2017?

Phil Collins

Phil Collins will headline the Friday show tonight, which starts at 2pm with a full supporting line-up, while American punk band Green Day will headline the Saturday show, on July 1 which starts at 1pm with a full supporting line-up.

Former Genesis frontman Phil, 65, recently came out of retirement, selling out his comeback tour in just 15 minutes after announcing dates in the UK, France and Germany last June.

He said: “The reaction from the British public has been overwhelming. I can’t wait to play Hyde Park and see everyone there.”

Justin Bieber

Grammy Award-winning Biebs will be returning to London next summer, following his Purpose Tour appearance at the O2 Arena this year.

After being embroiled in a miming scandal during his tour dates, it could be the chance for Justin Bieber to win back the hearts of his British fans.

Bieber fever will be in the air on Sunday, July 2, when the Sorry singer will take to the BST stage at 1PM.

Green Day

The five-time Grammy-winning trio Green Day’s new album Revolution Radio topped the UK charts when it was released last month.

Frontman Billie Joel Armstrong said following the BST announcement: “London in the summer, us and tens of thousands of fans having the biggest party in one of the world’s most legendary venues.

“We have the best year to look forward to and this has just made it extra special.”

Kings of Leon

Kings of Leon have become the third big name act to announce that they will be headlining the summer festival on July 6.

The Nashville quartet will be supported by the Pixies, Nathaniel Rateliff and The Night Sweats as well as many more acts who haven’t been announced yet.

Last month, the band played a secret gig in London and have recently gained top spot in the album charts, for the sixth consecutive time, with WALLS.

The band’s drummer, Nathan Followill, said: “It’s always a pleasure to party with our amazing fans at Hyde Park.”

Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers supported by Stevie Nicks

The legendary singer and his band will headline the event on Sunday July 9, their only European show of 2017.

The show will celebrate their 40th anniversary and will mark only their second UK visit in 18 years.

Petty and co will be joined by Fleetwood Mac singer Stevie Nicks and The Lumineers as support acts.

The Killers

The American quartet hailing from Las Vegas will take to the stage on Saturday July 8.

The gig will be their sole UK festival appearance this summer.

The band released their last album Battle Born four years ago, so fans will be hoping new music is released ahead of the concert.

Support acts on the day include Elbow and White Lies.

Who else is performing at British Summertime Festival 2017?

Also performing on Saturday July 1 (stage times approximate):

The Damned (2.30pm)
The Hives (3.40pm)
Gogol Bordello (4.50pm)
Rancid (6.00pm)
The Stranglers (7.00pm)
Also performing on Sunday July 2:

Jain (2.00pm)
Nina Nesbitt (2.30pm)
Naughty Boy (3.00pm)
Anne-Marie (4.00pm)
Tove Lo (5.00pm)
Mabel (5.45pm)
Martin Garrix (6.30pm)
Also performing on Thursday July 6:

Billy Raffoul (3:30pm)
Nathaniel Rateliff & The Night Sweats (5:20pm)
Pixies (6:35pm)
Also performing on Saturday July 8:

Mystery Jets (2:30pm)
Cold War Kids (3:30pm)
Mew (4:15pm)
Tears For Fears (4:45pm)
British Sea Power (5:45pm)
Elbow (6:30pm)
White Lies (7:30pm)
Where can I buy tickets, and how much do they cost?

Tickets to see Phil Collins tonight are available via AXS, and on Amazon Tickets.

Tickets for The Killers went on general sale from January 27 and are now sold out.

Tickets to see Green Day on Saturday, July 1, are on general sale via AXS and Amazon Tickets.

 

A variety of ticket “experiences” are also available.

