LOVE Island fans are literally chomping at the bit and can’t wait for tomorrow night’s episode.

It was revealed in a tease at the end of last night’s show that photos showing what the boys are REALLY getting up to in the other villa will be delivered to the girls at the main villa.

On Thursday night the original boys were packed off to go on a “mini-break”, while the girls stayed in the main villa.

Both sets of Islanders have been joined by a brand new batch of hotties.

The girls got six new boys, while the guys got five new girls.

In a sneak peek of Sunday night’s show, postcards with pictures of the lads and their escapades with the new girls land on the doorstep of the main villa.

They show the boys in compromising positions with the new ladies.

This taster sent fans crazy, with many demanding that there be a show on tonight.

The series only runs Sunday to Friday, and has a recap show on a Saturday night.

But viewers  said they “can’t wait” to see what will happen when the girls see those pics.

Taking to Twitter to vent their fury, one tweeted: “The pictures the producers sent thru the villa on love island is so savage! Can’t wait for Sunday now ! 😂 #Loveisland (sic)”

While this one added: “Love Island be like ‘what happens in Casa Amor stays in Casa Amor’ LOL JK lets send the villa a postcard 😂 #LoveIsland (sic)”

Another vented: “Can’t wait for Sunday’s #Loveisland can’t believe they were petty enough to post pictures of everyone cheating through the villa as post😭😭😭😂”

But unfortunately they will have to wait until tomorrow night to see the aftermath of those incriminating pics.

 Queen Savage @Shan_Avstreih
Can't wait for Sunday's #Loveisland can't believe they were petty enough to post pictures of everyone cheating through the villa as post😭😭😭😂
9:46 AM - 1 Jul 2017
 Jennifer Smith @JenSmith_x
Love Island be like 'what happens in Casa Amor stays in Casa Amor' LOL JK lets send the villa a postcard 😂 #LoveIsland
 Hera @hhkhnn
Can't wait for that postcard to arrive on Sunday to the actual Villa, Amber's face is going to be priceless 😂 #Loveisland
1:54 AM - 1 Jul 2017
 SAM @SamahSerene
The pictures the producers sent thru the villa on love island is so savage! Can't wait for Sunday now ! 😂 #Loveisland
12:55 AM - 1 Jul 2017
 Fiona Tuter @fiona_tuter
S*** is getting real in the villa #loveisland so excited for next week 🌴 🌴
11:17 PM - 30 Jun 2017

Meanwhile viewers were also shocked last night when it was revealed that the secret Casa Amor villa is only NEXT DOOR to the main villa.

Fans thought that when the boys were sent for their “mini-break” they had been shipped off somewhere – but it turns out they are in a neighbouring house to the ladies.

Last night viewers saw them play a game of “Sexy Charades”, and when the girls team won, the boys villa could hear them cheering.

Fans immediately took to Twitter to rage about how close the new villa was, when they had been led to believe is was far away.

One said: “The villas seems really close to each other? Then why did the boys take the car when they could’ve walked #LoveIsland”

Another tweeted: “How did the boys villa hear everyone in the other villa like they were next door to each other?? #Loveisland”

Meanwhile,  the brand new Love Island villa  has been revealed to be worth £2.5million.

The four-bed Mallorca abode isn’t as plush as the main villa but there is more room for contestants to get jiggy with, as this one has separate bedrooms which could spell more sex than ever on the show.

A spokesperson for Zoopla where there villa is listed said: “The production team might have given the luxury pad a signature Love Island zhoosh ahead of its new guests arriving, but even in its original format the villa is the perfect fit for singles looking for love, complete with some ‘cheeky’ photography and artwork adorning the walls…

“As well as four bedrooms, two large roof terraces and a very secluded setting, prospective owners of the villa can now add a brush with fame to the list of the property’s features.”
